docs(index.md): Expo / EAS updates and fixes (#7502)
invertase/react-native-firebase: docs/index.md

To enable Firebase on the native Android and iOS platforms, create and download Service Account files for each platform. Then, provide paths to the `google-services.json` and `GoogleService-Info.plist` files by specifying the [`expo.android.googleServicesFile`](https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/config/app/#googleservicesfile-1) and [`expo.ios.googleServicesFile`](https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/config/app/#googleservicesfile) fields. See the example configuration below.

For iOS only, since `firebase-ios-sdk` requires `use_frameworks` configure [`expo-build-properties`](https://docs.expo.dev/versions/latest/sdk/build-properties/#pluginconfigtypeios) and add the following entry to the `plugins` array in `app.json`:

Here is an example `app.json` to enable the Firebase App, Auth and Crashlytics modules, the Service Account files for both mobile platforms and setting the application ID to the example value of `com.mycorp.myapp` (change to match your own):

```json
{
  "expo": {
    "android": {

>       "googleServicesFile": "./google-services.json",
>       "package": "com.mycorp.myapp",
>       "useFrameworks": "static"

Reviewer: This is the android json area, and I think useFrameworks needs to be in the ios area

```suggestion
      "googleServicesFile": "./google-services.json",
      "package": "com.mycorp.myapp"
```

    },
    "ios": {

>       "googleServicesFile": "./GoogleService-Info.plist",
>       "bundleIdentifier": "com.mycorp.myapp"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      "googleServicesFile": "./GoogleService-Info.plist",
      "bundleIdentifier": "com.mycorp.myapp",
      "useFrameworks": "static"
```

### Expo Bare Workflow

Where possible, it is recommended by the Expo team to **_use Managed Workflow_** (see next section).

> If you're using [Bare Workflow](https://docs.expo.io/introduction/managed-vs-bare/#bare-workflow), you will need to follow the above [Android Setup](/#2-android-setup) and [iOS Setup](/#3-ios-setup) steps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you're using [Bare Workflow](https://docs.expo.dev/archive/managed-vs-bare/#bare-workflow), you will need to follow the above [Android Setup](/#2-android-setup) and [iOS Setup](/#3-ios-setup) steps.
```

Outdated link.

> ### Expo Bare Workflow

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest moving this section after the next section (at the end of the Expo section) since this causes confusion sometimes as to which workflow/path to pick Bare workflow vs Development builds (whether locally or with EAS).

Author: I would like to keep this at the top of the section.  It is important that someone recognize this distinction early in their learning/reading.  We have all run into people trying to use RNF with Expo Go and thinking that they've gotten quite far when in fact they don't understand this fundamental fact (I just had a back-and-forth on this yesterday on [Firebase Me](https://firebase.me/) ).

Reviewer 2: I agree with all of that and I'd leave this up to you. But to reduce the amount of confusion around "Bare" vs. "Expo Go" vs. "development build," &mdash; one way I can think of that is to make development builds the guided path by providing the reason why it doesn't work with Expo Go. This should satisfy most use cases and also provide confidence ot the reader that yes, this is the path they should pick when starting a new project. Also, with most bare workflow projects and projects that use prebuild, there is little distinction left between the two workflows.

Author: I'm cool to drop "Managed" in favour of "development build" (though, TBH, I find that term to be incorrect/misleading too....these builds aren't "development builds" they are "custom builds" or "configured builds" or something along those lines...they aren't only for development purposes).

Where possible, it is recommended by the Expo team to **_use Managed Workflow_** (see next section).

If you're using [Bare Workflow](https://docs.expo.io/introduction/managed-vs-bare/#bare-workflow), you will need to follow the above [Android Setup](/#2-android-setup) and [iOS Setup](/#3-ios-setup) steps.

### Expo Managed Workflow

Since Expo Go will not work with react-native-firebase, the suggested workflow is to use a [custom development client](https://docs.expo.dev/clients/getting-started/).

Follow [these directions](https://docs.expo.dev/get-started/create-a-project/) to create a new Expo project.

#### Install React Native Firebase modules

To install React Native Firebase's base `app` module, use the command `npx expo install @react-native-firebase/app`.

> Similarly you can install other React Native Firebase modules such as for Authentication and Crashlytics: `npx expo install @react-native-firebase/auth @react-native-firebase/crashlytics`.

Reviewer 2: Same feedback here as my previous comment.

#### Configure React Native Firebase modules

> To enable Firebase on the native iOS and Android platforms, you must create and download Service Account files for each platform. Then you provide paths to the `google-services.json` and `GoogleService-Info.plist` files by specifying the [`expo.android.googleServicesFile`](https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/config/app/#googleservicesfile-1) and [`expo.ios.googleServicesFile`](https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/config/app/#googleservicesfile) fields respectively. See example configuration below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable Firebase on the native Android and iOS platforms, create and download Service Account files for each platform. Then, provide paths to the `google-services.json` and `GoogleService-Info.plist` files by specifying the [`expo.android.googleServicesFile`](https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/config/app/#googleservicesfile-1) and [`expo.ios.googleServicesFile`](https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/config/app/#googleservicesfile) fields. See the example configuration below.
```

- First couple of lines edited for brevity and conciseness
- Switched platforms in the first line since in the second line, Android and iOS platforms and their related files are switched in this order

> For each React Native Firebase module, add the required [Expo Config Plugin](https://docs.expo.dev/config-plugins/introduction/) to the [`plugins`](https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/config/app/#plugins) array of your `app.json` or `app.config.js`. See the note below to determine which modules require Config Plugin configurations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For each React Native Firebase module, add the required [Expo Config Plugin](https://docs.expo.dev/config-plugins/introduction/) to the [`plugins`](https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/config/app/#plugins) array in app config file (`app.json` or `app.config.js`). See the note below to determine which modules require Config Plugin configurations.
```

> For iOS only, since `firebase-ios-sdk` requires `use_frameworks` please configure [expo-build-properties](https://docs.expo.dev/versions/latest/sdk/build-properties/#pluginconfigtypeios) and add the following entry to their `plugins` array in `app.json`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For iOS only, since `firebase-ios-sdk` requires `use_frameworks` configure [`expo-build-properties`](https://docs.expo.dev/versions/latest/sdk/build-properties/#pluginconfigtypeios) and add the following entry to the `plugins` array in `app.json`:
```

Here is an example `app.json` to enable the Firebase App, Auth and Crashlytics modules, the Service Account files for both mobile platforms and setting the application ID to the example value of `com.mycorp.myapp` (change to match your own):

```json
{
  "expo": {
    "android": {
      "googleServicesFile": "./google-services.json",
      "package": "com.mycorp.myapp",
      "useFrameworks": "static"
    },
    "ios": {
      "googleServicesFile": "./GoogleService-Info.plist",
      "bundleIdentifier": "com.mycorp.myapp"
    },
    "plugins": [
      "@react-native-firebase/app",
      "@react-native-firebase/auth",
      "@react-native-firebase/crashlytics"
    ]
  }
}
```

> > Listing a module in the Config Plugins (the `"plugins"` array in the JSON above) is only required for React Native Firebase modules that involve _native installation steps_ - e.g. modifying the Xcode project, `Podfile`, `build.gradle`, `AndroidManifest.xml` etc. React Native Firebase packages without native steps will work out of the box; no `"plugins"` entry required. Not all packages have Expo Config Plugins provided yet. A React Native Firebase module has Config Plugin support if it contains an `app.plugin.js` file in its package directory (e.g. `node_modules/@react-native-firebase/app/app.plugin.js`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Listing a module in the Config Plugins (the `"plugins"` array in the JSON above) is only required for React Native Firebase modules that involve _native installation steps_ - e.g. modifying the Xcode project, `Podfile`, `build.gradle`, `AndroidManifest.xml` etc. React Native Firebase modules without native steps will work out of the box; no `"plugins" entry is required. Not all modules have Expo Config Plugins provided yet. A React Native Firebase module has Config Plugin support if it contains an `app.plugin.js` file in its package directory (e.g. `node_modules/@react-native-firebase/app/app.plugin.js`).
```

- Let's not switch too much between packages and modules
- "Not all packages have Expo Config Plugins provided yet" --are there any modules from React Native Firebase library that requires custom native code and doesn't have a config plugin? I'm trying to confirm this since I am not sure. If yes, then its appropriate to keep this and if not, I'd suggest removing this since it would lead to confusion.

> #### Non EAS Builds

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Local app compilation
```

Let's also try to use the terminology which we recently started using Expo docs (I hope this will minify confusion).

> If you are **not** using EAS Build then you must use the `expo prebuild --clean` command as described in the ["Adding custom native code"](https://docs.expo.io/workflow/customizing/) guide to rebuild your app locally to include the config plugin changes. If this command isn't run, you'll encounter connection errors to Firebase.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are compiling your app locally, use the local app compilation steps described in [Local app development](https://docs.expo.dev/guides/local-app-development/) guide in Expo docs.
```

I'd suggest guiding folks to the local app develop guide since it explains when prebuild is ran, also guide devs to what to do after creating a local app version (such as how to create a release variant, etc.) and explain `npx expo prebuild` vs using `--clean vs adding `android` and `ios` directories to the `.gitignore` etc.
